Pitch Outcomes and Zone Heatmaps
Analyzing Pitch Outcomes by Type and Location
This project focuses on visualizing and analyzing pitch outcomes for various pitch types and locations using Python, Matplotlib, and Seaborn. The goal is to provide actionable insights for player performance and pitch effectiveness by generating tables and heatmaps.

Features
1. Pitch Outcomes Table
Overview: A detailed table summarizing pitch outcomes (e.g., strike swinging, strike called, chased pitch, ball in play) by pitch type.
Visualization: Generates a clean, structured table using Matplotlib.
2. Zone Heatmap
Overview: Heatmaps displaying pitch effectiveness across different strike zones.
Visualization: Zone-specific performance of pitch types with annotations for easy interpretation.
Customization: Adjustable labels and color schemes.
Technologies Used
Python: Core programming language.
Pandas: Data manipulation and grouping.
Matplotlib: Table visualization and heatmap generation.
Seaborn: For heatmaps and enhanced visuals.
How to Use
Clone the repository:
bash
Copy
Edit
git clone https://github.com/your-username/pitch-outcomes-zone-heatmaps.git
Install the required libraries:
bash
Copy
Edit
pip install matplotlib seaborn pandas numpy
Run the main script:
bash
Copy
Edit
python pitch_analysis.py
View the generated Pitch Outcomes Table and Zone Heatmaps.
Sample Visualizations
1. Pitch Outcomes Table

2. Zone Heatmap

Project Highlights
Provides a structured view of pitch performance by type and zone.
Offers customizable visualizations for baseball analytics enthusiasts.
Demonstrates practical applications of Python in sports analytics.
Future Enhancements
Automate data fetching using pybaseball.
Include more granular zone divisions (e.g., 9x9 grid).
Integrate player-specific analysis (e.g., Statcast data for specific MLB players).
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Contributions
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests to improve this project.

Contact
For any inquiries, reach out to:

Email: mjhoulih@go.olemiss.edu
GitHub: matthoulihann
